[IMP] Appraisals: Update new appraisals (#13241)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/appraisals/new_appraisals.rst

==================
Conduct appraisals
==================

Appraisals give employees an opportunity to :ref:`provide feedback to management
<appraisals/employee-feedback>` on their role, including sharing their day to day activities,
informing management of their goals, and their level of satisfaction with both their job and the

> company in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
company in general. Appraisals help both parties better understand the employee's performance and job satisfaction,
which aids in retention, employee engagement, to the benefit of the company.
```

> :ref:`Manager feedback <appraisals/manager-feedback>` includes acknowledging the employee's
> achievements, as well as identifying pain points and areas of improvement, providing a plan of
> action to assist the employee in thriving in their role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By providing :ref:`feedback <appraisals/manager-feedback>` managers can acknowledge the employee's
achievements, while identifying any pain points and areas of improvement, providing a plan of
action to assist the employee in thriving in their role.
```

> Appraisals help both parties better understand the employee's performance and job satisfaction,
> which aids in retention, employee engagement, to the benefit of the company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

.. _appraisals/employee-feedback:

Employee feedback
=================

> Once an appraisal is confirmed, the next steps require the employee to fill out the self-assessment,

Reviewer: I can't review these lines, but I think "Once an appraisal is confirmed, the employee is required to fill out the self-assessment..." flows a bit better

self-assessment, and provide feedback on how they feel about the company and their role.

The employee feedback remains hidden from management while the employee is performing their
self-assessment. Once the employee has completed their half of the appraisal, they tick the gray
:guilabel:`Not Visible to Manager` toggle. This changes the toggle text to :guilabel:`Visible to
Manager`, the color changes to green, and their responses are then visible to management.

Additionally, a green dot appears on the appraisal card on the **Appraisals** app dashboard,
indicating the employee has completed their assessment, and marked their half of the appraisal as
done.

.. _appraisals/manager-feedback:

Manager's Feedback
==================

While the employee is completing their :guilabel:`Employee's Feedback` section, the manager fills
out the :guilabel:`Manager's Feedback` section.

Before the manager fills out their portion of the appraisal, managers typically review the
employee's goals and skills, and ask for :ref:`additional feedback <appraisals/ask-feedback>` from
the employee's coworkers, to better understand all the achievements and challenges for the employee.

> Once the manager has all the information they need to fully evaluate the employee, they fill out the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the manager has all the information they need to evaluate the employee, they fill out the
```

:guilabel:`Manager's Feedback` section of the appraisal form. The manager's half has the following
sections: :guilabel:`Feedback`, :guilabel:`Evaluation`, and :guilabel:`Improvements`.

> The managers appraisal focuses on the employee's accomplishments, as well as identifying areas of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The manager's appraisal focuses on the employee's accomplishments, as well as identifying areas of
```

improvements, with actionable steps to help the employee achieve their goals in both the long and
short term.

When the feedback section is completed, the manager ticks the :guilabel:`Not Visible to Employee`
toggle. This changes the toggle text to :guilabel:`Visible to Employee`, the color changes to green,

> and their responses are then visible to the employee.

Reviewer: Is this required or optional? Because I can see a use case where this is kept invisible until the manager meets with the employee to discuss the feedback

Author: Ahh yes- good point!

.. _appraisals/ask-feedback:

Ask for feedback
----------------

> As part of the appraisal process, the manager can request feedback for an employee from anyone in
> the company. Feedback is usually requested from coworkers and other people who interact with, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of the appraisal process, the manager can request feedback from anyone in
the company about an employee. Feedback is usually requested from coworkers and other people who interact with, or
```

work with, the employee. This is to get a more well-rounded view of the employee, and aid in the
manager's overall assessment.

> To request feedback, the appraisal **must** be confirmed. Once confirmed, an :guilabel:`Ask

Reviewer: May be worth putting in an "important" admonition

email template.

First, using the drop-down menu, select the employees being asked to provide feedback in the
:guilabel:`Recipients` field. Multiple employees may be selected. Next, make any desired changes to
the default message, and attach any relevant documents. To attach a document, click the
:icon:`fa-paperclip` :guilabel:`Attachments` button, and a file explorer window appears. Navigate to
the files, select them, then click :guilabel:`Open`.

The :guilabel:`Answer Deadline` date is automatically set to the day after the :guilabel:`Appraisal
Date` on the appraisal form. Using the calendar selector, modify the date, if desired.

When the email is ready to send, click :guilabel:`Send`, and the feedback requests are sent to the
specified employees.

.. image:: new_appraisals/ask-feedback.png
   :alt: The email pop-up when requesting feedback from other employees.

Appraisal review
================

Once both portions of an appraisal are completed (the :ref:`employee <appraisals/employee-feedback>`
and :ref:`manager <appraisals/manager-feedback>` feedback sections), it is time for the employee and
manager to :ref:`meet and discuss the appraisal <appraisals/schedule>`.

> During the appraisal meeting, the manager goes over both the :ref:`Employee's Feedback

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the appraisal meeting, the manager reviews both the :ref:`Employee's Feedback
```

==================
Conduct appraisals
==================

Appraisals give employees an opportunity to :ref:`provide feedback to management
<appraisals/employee-feedback>` on their role, including sharing their day to day activities,
informing management of their goals, and their level of satisfaction with both their job and the
company in general. Appraisals help both parties better understand the employee's performance and
job satisfaction,which aids in retention, employee engagement, to the benefit of the company.

By providing :ref:`Manager feedback <appraisals/manager-feedback>`, managers can acknowledge the
employee's achievements, while identifying any pain points and areas of improvement, providing a

> plan of action to assist the employee in thriving in their role.

Reviewer 2: This intro is strong and gives me a good sense of how appraisals are used in the day-to-day! 10/10 on business relevance :blush: 

I'm wondering, since we went over this in a similar doc about scheduling appraisals, we don't have to hammer home the value of appraisals as much, and the intro can be more a summary of the entire workflow? This document is quite long (and very detailed! :heart_eyes: ) and a strong outline of the entire process can really help the reader ground their understanding of how each section they're reading fits into the whole process. 

Feel free to ask me for help but how about work shopping your current intro into this longer outline one (this is a chatgpt yap, so it's a little wordy; feel free to take out what doesn't make sense!)

```
This guide explains the end-to-end appraisal workflow in Odoo—from creation to final rating—showing how managers and employees collaborate at each stage.

#. Employee self-assessment
    The employee completes the Employee’s Feedback template and updates their skills. Responses remain hidden until the employee sets the form to Visible to Manager.

#. Manager feedback
    While the employee works on their section, the manager reviews goals, gathers peer input if needed, and fills out the Manager’s Feedback template. Feedback can remain hidden until the appraisal meeting.

#. Appraisal review
    Manager and employee meet to discuss both feedback sections, validate skill changes, and agree on next steps. The meeting can be scheduled directly from the appraisal or the calendar.

#. Completion and rating
    After the discussion, the manager assigns a final rating, adds any private notes, and marks the appraisal Done. The record then locks unless it is reopened for further edits.

Throughout the process, optional actions—such as requesting peer feedback or logging private manager notes—enhance the appraisal’s accuracy and relevance.

Author: I made these CARDS!!! I love this idea and reordering/reorganizing!

employee's goals and skills, and ask for :ref:`additional feedback <appraisals/ask-feedback>` from
the employee's coworkers, to better understand all the achievements and challenges for the employee.

Once the manager has all the information they need to evaluate the employee, they fill out the
:guilabel:`Manager's Feedback` section of the appraisal form. The manager's half has the following
sections: :guilabel:`Feedback`, :guilabel:`Evaluation`, and :guilabel:`Improvements`.

The manager's appraisal focuses on the employee's accomplishments, as well as identifying areas of
improvements, with actionable steps to help the employee achieve their goals in both the long and
short term.

When the feedback section is completed, the manager can tick the :guilabel:`Not Visible to Employee`
toggle. This changes the toggle text to :guilabel:`Visible to Employee`, the color changes to green,
and their responses are then visible to the employee.

.. note::
   Some managers prefer to keep their feedback hidden from the employee until they :ref:`meet with
   the employee <appraisals/review>` to discuss the appraisal.

.. _appraisals/ask-feedback:

Ask for feedback
----------------

> As part of the appraisal process, the manager can request feedback for an employee from anyone in

Reviewer 2: Is this the 360 feedback feature? if so, let's also mention it here so it can be searched :D

> the company about an employee. Feedback is usually requested from coworkers and other people who
> interact with, or work with, the employee. This is to get a more well-rounded view of the employee,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the company about an employee. Feedback is requested from coworkers and anyone else who works with the employee. This is to get a more well-rounded view of the employee,
```

==================
Conduct appraisals
==================

This guide explains the end-to-end appraisal workflow in Odoo, from creation to final rating,
showing how managers and employees collaborate at each stage.

- :ref:`Employee self-assessment <appraisals/employee-feedback>`: The employee completes the
  Employee's Feedback template and updates their skills. Responses remain hidden until the employee

>   sets the form to Visible to Manager.

Reviewer 3: Please use italics when referring to an element
```suggestion
  sets the form to *Visible to Manager*.
```

- :ref:`Manager feedback <appraisals/manager-feedback>`: While the employee works on their section,

>   the manager reviews goals, gathers peer input if needed, and fills out the Manager's Feedback

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  the manager reviews goals, gathers peer input if needed, and fills out the *Manager's Feedback*
```

  template. Feedback can remain hidden until the appraisal meeting.

> 

Reviewer 3: Nitpick- please remove the empty lines between bullet points of the same level
```suggestion
```

Author: Yu know- because it rendered correctly for 'make fast' I thought this was correct =D

and double-click on, the desired date and time for the meeting.

Doing so opens a :guilabel:`New Event` pop-up form. From this pop-up form, make any desired
modifications, such as designating a :guilabel:`Start` time.

> The appraisee populates the :guilabel:`Attendees` section by default. Add anyone else who should be

Reviewer: Maybe employee? 
This is the only time you use the term "appraisee", so it seems inconsistent

Author: true- not sure who made that edit in the original doc, because I didn't write it form the beginning =D

> and double-click on, the desired date and time for the meeting.

Reviewer 2: lines 154 - 166, I'm wondering if we can shorten this by simply saying 

"Click the activity icon beneath the appraisal date on the desired appraisal card, and an activity
pop-up window appears. Click :icon:`fa-plus` :guilabel:`Schedule an activity`, and set the :guilabel:`Activity Type` to :guilabel:`Meeting`. For more information on scheduling activities, refer to

https://www.odoo.com/documentation/18.0/applications/essentials/activities.html#all-scheduled-activities

.. note::
   If no meetings are scheduled, the :guilabel:`Meeting` smart button reads :guilabel:`No Meeting`.

.. _appraisals/skills:

Employee skills
---------------

Part of an appraisal is evaluating an employee's skills, and tracking their progress over time. The
:guilabel:`Skills` tab of the appraisal form auto-populates with the skills from the :ref:`employee
form <employees/skills>`, once an appraisal is confirmed.

Each skill is grouped with like skills, and the :guilabel:`Skill Level`, :guilabel:`Progress`, and
:guilabel:`Justification` are displayed for each skill.

:ref:`Update any skills, or add any new skills <employees/skills>` to the :guilabel:`Skills` tab.

If a skill level has increased, enter a reason for the improved rating in the
:guilabel:`Justification` field, such as `took a fluency language test` or `received Javascript
certification`.

After an appraisal is completed, and the skills have been updated, the next time an appraisal is
confirmed, the updated skills populate the :guilabel:`Skills` tab.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Skills` tab *can* be modified **after** the employee and their manager have met
   and discussed the employee's appraisal.

>    This is a common situation as the manager may not have all the necessary information to properly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This is a common situation as the manager may not have all the necessary information to
```

   assess and update the employee's skills before meeting.

Complete an appraisal
=====================

After the appraisal has been filled out by both the employee and the manager, and both parties have
met and discussed the employee's performance, the manager then :ref:`logs any notes
<appraisals/notes>`, and :ref:`assigns a rating <appraisals/rate>`.

When completed, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the upper-left corner of the appraisal
form.

Once the appraisal is marked as *Done*, the status changes from :guilabel:`Confirmed` to
:guilabel:`Done`, and the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button changes to a :guilabel:`Reopen` button.

.. tip::
   Modifications are **not** possible once the appraisal is marked as done.

   To make any changes to an appraisal with a status of :guilabel:`Done`, click the
   :guilabel:`Reopen` button, then, click :guilabel:`Confirm`, and make any modifications needed.
   Once all modifications are complete, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button again.

.. _appraisals/notes:

Add a private note
------------------

> Managers are able to log notes on an appraisal that are **only** visible to other managers, Enter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managers can log notes on an appraisal that are **only** visible to other managers, Enter
```

any notes in the :guilabel:`Private Note` tab. This can be done anytime during the appraisal
process.

The employee being evaluated does **not** have access to this tab, and the tab does **not** appear
on their appraisal.

This tab is not required to be populated, and does not affect the appraisal rating.

.. _appraisals/rate:

> Rate an appraisal

Reviewer: Instead of "rate an appraisal", which almost sounds like you are rating the appraisal process, maybe "Provide a final rating"?

-----------------

After both the manager and employee have met to discuss the employee's performance, the appraisal
must be given a :guilabel:`Final Rating`.

Using the drop-down menu, select the rating for the employee. The default options are:
:guilabel:`Needs improvement`, :guilabel:`Meets expectations`, :guilabel:`Exceeds expectations`,
:guilabel:`Strongly Exceeds Expectations`, and :guilabel:`Good`.

> If the default ratings are not sufficient, and a new rating is needed, navigate to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a new rating, navigate to
```

   This is a common situation as the manager may not have all the necessary information to assess
   and update the employee's skills before meeting.

Complete an appraisal
=====================

After the appraisal has been filled out by both the employee and the manager, and both parties have
met and discussed the employee's performance, the manager then :ref:`logs any notes
<appraisals/notes>`, and :ref:`assigns a rating <appraisals/rate>`.

When completed, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the upper-left corner of the appraisal
form.

Once the appraisal is marked as *Done*, the status changes from :guilabel:`Confirmed` to
:guilabel:`Done`, and the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button changes to a :guilabel:`Reopen` button.

.. tip::
   Modifications are **not** possible once the appraisal is marked as done.

   To make any changes to an appraisal with a status of :guilabel:`Done`, click the
   :guilabel:`Reopen` button, then, click :guilabel:`Confirm`, and make any modifications needed.
   Once all modifications are complete, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button again.

.. _appraisals/notes:

Add a private note
------------------

> Managers can log notes on an appraisal that are **only** visible to other managers, Enter any notes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Managers can log notes on an appraisal that are **only** visible to other managers. Enter any notes
```

in the :guilabel:`Private Note` tab. This can be done anytime during the appraisal process.

The employee being evaluated does **not** have access to this tab, and the tab does **not** appear
on their appraisal.

> This tab is not required to be populated, and does not affect the appraisal rating.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The tab is optional and does not affect the final rating.
```
